---
title: Theta Function
publishDate: 2023-05-13 21:05:19
tags:
  - Complex Analysis
  - Lecture Notes
description: 'Introduction of Theta Function'
language: 'English'
---

## Background

As the speed of convergence of $ \wp(z) $ is too slow, we need a new function.

We can represent $ \wp(z) $ as a ration of two functions.

Consider the case of lattice being generated by $ 2\pi $ and $ i $. We fix a positive integer k and consider the conditions on a holomorphic function on $ \mathbb{Z} $
$$
    \varphi(z+2\pi)=\varphi(z)\\\\
    \varphi(z+i)=\varphi(z)e^{k(-iz+1/2)}
$$

Actually, it's constructed through Fourier Transformation. By taking Fourier Transformation, you get
$$
\varphi(w)=\sum\limits_{n=-\infty}^\infty c_n e^{2n i w}.
$$
Then, you also have
$$
\varphi(z+i)=\varphi(z)e^{k(-iz+1/2)}
$$
and you can solve $ c_n $ and get $$
    \theta(z)=\sum e^{-p^2/2}e^{ipz}
$$
For general lattice$ \tau \mathbb{Z}\sum 2\pi\mathbb{Z} $ , we have$$
    \theta(z,\tau)=\sum_{p}\sqrt{\frac{i\tau}{2\pi}}e^{i\tau p^{2}/2}e^{i p z}
$$

Theta function plays an important role in many areas, which I don't know. Here are some fun facts

## Matrix Description of Theta Function

Consider a orthonormal basis of $ \Lambda $, actually to obtain a symmetric bilinear form which is positive non-degenerate, then setting $ a_{ij}=e_i\cdot e_j $, then the matrix $ A=(a_{ij}) $must be positive and non-degenerate and symmetric. the corresponding theta function is  
$$
    \varTheta_{\Lambda}(t)=\sum_{x\in \mathbb{Z}^{n}}e^{-\pi t\sum a_{ij}x_ix_j}
$$
The volume of lattice $ \Lambda $ is $det\sqrt{A} $

## Higher dimension Lattice

We consider lattice $ L=\mathbb{Z}^n $ in space $ \mathbb{Q}^n $ equiped with usual dot product bilinear form, where $ \mathbb{Q} $ denotes rational numbers. However, it does not satisfy the property$ x\cdot x=0 \space mod 2 $.

We want to construct a submodule $ L_2 $ of $ L $ satisfies this property.
To fix this, we add the vector $ e = (1/2, 路 路 路 , 1/2)\in V  $ and consider $ \Gamma_n $ = submodule of V generated by $ L_2 $  and e. Then
$$
    x 路 e =\frac{1}{2}\sum x_i \in \mathbb{Z} \quad \forall x \in L_2,\quad e \cdot e = 2k
$$
where $ n=8k $.
so $ \Gamma_n $  satisfies the mod 2 property. Moreover, $ L_2 $  has index 2 in $ \Gamma_n $ since $ 2e \in L_2 $ , so $ \Gamma_n $ has finite volume equal to 1 as desired, and defines a lattice in $ \mathbb{R}^n $
